docs/reports/crewai-data-flow-verification.md, before:

# End-to-End Data Flow Verification Report

## Executive Summary

**Overall Status: ✅ Well-Architected with Minor Gaps**

The CrewAI → Supabase → API → UI data flow is comprehensively implemented. All major paths are connected, with a few edge cases noted below.

---

## Data Flow Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                              CrewAI AMP                                      │
│  (InternalValidationFlow / ConsultantOnboardingFlow)                        │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                                    │
                    ┌───────────────┴───────────────┐
                    ▼                               ▼
        POST /api/crewai/webhook          POST /api/approvals/webhook
        (Bearer: CREW_CONTRACT_BEARER)    (Bearer: CREW_CONTRACT_BEARER)
                    │                               │
                    ▼                               ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                           Supabase PostgreSQL                                │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  crewai_validation_states (188 cols)  │  approval_requests                  │
│  - kickoff_id (links to AMP)          │  - execution_id, task_id            │
│  - D-F-V signals                      │  - kickoff_id (links to state)      │
│  - Evidence containers (JSONB)        │  - status, options, decision        │
│  - customer_profiles, value_maps      │                                      │
│  - Crew outputs (all 8 crews)         │  approval_preferences               │
│                                        │  approval_history                   │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  reports  │  evidence  │  entrepreneur_briefs  │  value_proposition_canvas  │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                    │                               │
                    ▼                               ▼
        GET /api/crewai/status            GET /api/approvals
        GET /api/vpc/[projectId]          PATCH /api/approvals/[id]
                    │                               │
                    ▼                               ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                           React Hooks                                        │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  useCrewAIState()     │  useInnovationSignals()  │  useApprovals()          │
│  useVPCReport()       │  useVPC()                │  useFounderStatus()      │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                    │                               │
                    ▼                               ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                           UI Components                                      │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  VPCWithSignals       │  SignalGauge            │  ApprovalCard             │
│  VPCReportViewer      │  InnovationPhysicsPanel │  ApprovalDetailModal      │
│  VPC Canvas (editable)│  SignalBadge/Dot        │  EvidenceSummary          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## Flow 1: VPC Data (Sage Crew → UI)

### Path
```
Sage Crew (Analysis)
  ↓
POST /api/crewai/webhook (flow_type: founder_validation)
  ↓
crewai_validation_states.customer_profiles (JSONB)
crewai_validation_states.value_maps (JSONB)
  ↓
useCrewAIState(projectId)
  ↓
transformCrewAIToVPC() [vpc-transformer.ts]
  ↓
VPCWithSignals / VPCReportViewer
```

### Verification

| Step | Status | Details |
|------|--------|---------|
| Webhook receives VPC data | ✅ | `customer_profiles` and `value_maps` extracted from payload |
| Persisted to DB | ✅ | JSONB columns with GIN indexes for query performance |
| Hook fetches data | ✅ | `useCrewAIState()` queries by `project_id` |
| Transformer maps fields | ✅ | `transformCrewAIToVPC()` converts to `VPCUISegment[]` |
| Component renders | ✅ | Jobs/Pains/Gains/Relievers/Creators all mapped |

### Data Transformation Check
```
Pydantic CustomerProfile → JSON → TypeScript CustomerProfile
  ✅ segment_name → segment_name
  ✅ jobs (CustomerJob[]) → jobs (with functional/emotional/social/importance)
  ✅ pains (string[]) → pains
  ✅ gains (string[]) → gains
  ✅ pain_intensity (Dict) → pain_intensity (Record)
  ✅ gain_importance (Dict) → gain_importance (Record)
  ✅ resonance_score → resonance_score
```

### Gap: None identified

---

## Flow 2: Evidence Data (Pulse/Forge/Ledger → UI)

### Path
```
Growth Crew (Pulse) → desirability_evidence
Build Crew (Forge)  → feasibility_evidence
Finance Crew (Ledger) → viability_evidence
  ↓
POST /api/crewai/webhook
  ↓
crewai_validation_states.desirability_evidence (JSONB)
crewai_validation_states.feasibility_evidence (JSONB)
crewai_validation_states.viability_evidence (JSONB)
  ↓
useInnovationSignals(projectId)
  ↓
SignalGauge / EvidenceSummary / InnovationPhysicsPanel
```

### Verification

| Step | Status | Details |
|------|--------|---------|
| Evidence containers received | ✅ | All three evidence types in webhook payload |
| Signal derivation | ✅ | `deriveSignalFromEvidence()` maps metrics to signals |
| Evidence persisted | ✅ | Full JSONB objects stored |
| Hook extracts evidence | ✅ | `useInnovationSignals()` returns all three |
| Components display metrics | ✅ | SignalGauge tooltips show key metrics |

### Signal Derivation Logic
```typescript
// Desirability
problem_resonance > 0.6 → 'strong_commitment'
problem_resonance > 0.3 → 'weak_interest'
problem_resonance > 0   → 'no_interest'
default                 → 'no_signal'

// Feasibility
all features POSSIBLE   → 'green'
some CONSTRAINED        → 'orange_constrained'
any IMPOSSIBLE          → 'red_impossible'
default                 → 'unknown'

// Viability
ltv_cac_ratio >= 3      → 'profitable'
ltv_cac_ratio >= 1      → 'marginal'
ltv_cac_ratio > 0       → 'underwater'
tam_usd < threshold     → 'zombie_market'
default                 → 'unknown'
```

### Gap: None identified

---

## Flow 3: Signals (StartupValidationState → Phase Visualization)

### Path
```
StartupValidationState (from any crew update)
  ↓
crewai_validation_states.phase
crewai_validation_states.desirability_signal
crewai_validation_states.feasibility_signal
crewai_validation_states.viability_signal
crewai_validation_states.pivot_recommendation
  ↓
useCrewAIState(projectId)
  ↓
InnovationPhysicsPanel / PhaseBadge / PivotBadge
```

### Verification

| Step | Status | Details |
|------|--------|---------|
| Phase tracking | ✅ | `phase` column: ideation→desirability→feasibility→viability→validated/killed |
| Signal columns | ✅ | Three separate columns with enum types |
| Pivot recommendation | ✅ | `pivot_recommendation` column with PivotType enum |
| UI mapping | ✅ | `signalConfig` maps signals to colors/icons |

### Phase Progression Display
```
ideation → desirability → feasibility → viability → validated
                                                  ↘ killed
```

### Gap: None identified

---

## Flow 4: HITL Approvals (CrewAI Webhook → Approval UI → Resume)

### Path
```
CrewAI (human_input_required: true)
  ↓
POST /api/approvals/webhook
  ↓
approval_requests table (status: 'pending')
  ↓
useApprovals() [with Supabase Realtime]
  ↓
ApprovalCard / ApprovalDetailModal
  ↓
User decision (approve/reject)
  ↓
PATCH /api/approvals/[id]
  ↓
POST ${CREWAI_API_URL}/resume (execution_id, task_id, decision, feedback)
  ↓
CrewAI resumes execution
```

### Verification

| Step | Status | Details |
|------|--------|---------|
| Webhook creates request | ✅ | Full payload stored: execution_id, task_id, options |
| Auto-approve check | ✅ | Checks `approval_preferences` before creating |
| Realtime subscription | ✅ | `supabase.channel('approval-changes')` |
| UI displays options | ✅ | Radio buttons from `options[]` with risk levels |
| Resume call | ✅ | `resumeCrewAIExecution()` POSTs to `/resume` |
| History tracking | ✅ | All actions logged to `approval_history` |

### Approval Types Supported
```
segment_pivot | value_pivot | feature_downgrade | strategic_pivot
spend_increase | campaign_launch | customer_contact | gate_progression | data_sharing
```

### Gap: None identified

---

## Additional Flows Verified

### Flow 5: Analysis Trigger
```
User clicks "Analyze" → POST /api/analyze → CrewAI /kickoff → poll /api/crewai/status
                                                            → webhook on completion
```
**Status: ✅ Connected**

### Flow 6: VPC Initialization (CrewAI → Editable Canvas)
```
crewai_validation_states → POST /api/vpc/[projectId]/initialize → value_proposition_canvas
                                                                → useVPC() for CRUD
```
**Status: ✅ Connected**

### Flow 7: Founder Status Polling
```
/api/agents/status → useFounderStatus() → FounderAvatar / active agent display
```
**Status: ✅ Connected**

---

## Gaps & Issues Found

### ⚠️ Gap 1: Kickoff ID Propagation to Approvals

**Issue:** When an approval is created via webhook, the `kickoff_id` may be null if the CrewAI payload doesn't include it consistently.

**Impact:** Linking approval decisions back to the original validation state could fail.

**Files Affected:**
- `frontend/src/app/api/approvals/webhook/route.ts`

**Recommendation:** Add fallback logic to derive `kickoff_id` from `execution_id` if not provided.

---

### ⚠️ Gap 2: VPC Sync After Manual Edits

**Issue:** When users manually edit VPC data in `value_proposition_canvas`, there's no automatic sync back to `crewai_validation_states`.

**Impact:** The next CrewAI run won't see manual edits unless explicitly merged.

**Files Affected:**
- `frontend/src/app/api/vpc/[projectId]/route.ts`
- `frontend/src/hooks/useVPC.ts`

**Recommendation:**
1. Add `source: 'crewai' | 'manual' | 'hybrid'` tracking (already exists)
2. Consider adding a "Sync to CrewAI" action that updates `crewai_validation_states`

---

### ⚠️ Gap 3: Evidence History Not Preserved

**Issue:** Each webhook UPSERTS on `project_id`, replacing previous evidence.

**Impact:** Historical evidence from earlier iterations is lost.

**Files Affected:**
- `frontend/src/app/api/crewai/webhook/route.ts`

**Recommendation:**
1. Change UPSERT to INSERT with `iteration` increment
2. Or maintain separate `validation_state_history` table

---

### ⚠️ Gap 4: Realtime Updates for Validation State

**Issue:** `useCrewAIState()` doesn't subscribe to Realtime - only polls on mount.

**Impact:** UI won't update automatically when CrewAI webhook updates state.

**Files Affected:**
- `frontend/src/hooks/useCrewAIState.ts`

**Recommendation:** Add Supabase Realtime subscription like `useApprovals()` does:
```typescript
supabase.channel('validation-state-changes')
  .on('postgres_changes', {
    event: '*',
    schema: 'public',
    table: 'crewai_validation_states',
    filter: `project_id=eq.${projectId}`
  }, () => refetch())
```

---

## Verification Summary

| Data Flow | Persistence | API Routes | Hooks | Components | Status |
|-----------|-------------|------------|-------|------------|--------|
| VPC Data | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ Complete |
| Evidence | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ Complete |
| Signals | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ Complete |
| HITL | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ Complete |
| Analysis Trigger | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ Complete |
| VPC Editable | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ⚠️ Sync gap |
| Realtime Updates | ⚠️ | N/A | ⚠️ | N/A | ⚠️ Partial |

**Overall: 6/7 flows fully connected, 1 with minor sync gap**

---

## Critical Files Reference

### Persistence Layer
- `frontend/src/db/schema/crewai-validation-states.ts` - Main schema (188 columns)
- `supabase/migrations/20251126000002_approval_requests.sql` - HITL tables

### API Routes
- `frontend/src/app/api/crewai/webhook/route.ts` - Main webhook handler
- `frontend/src/app/api/approvals/webhook/route.ts` - HITL webhook
- `frontend/src/app/api/approvals/[id]/route.ts` - Approval decisions + resume
- `frontend/src/app/api/vpc/[projectId]/route.ts` - VPC CRUD
- `frontend/src/app/api/vpc/[projectId]/initialize/route.ts` - VPC initialization

### Hooks
- `frontend/src/hooks/useCrewAIState.ts` - Main state + signals
- `frontend/src/hooks/useApprovals.ts` - HITL with Realtime
- `frontend/src/hooks/useVPC.ts` - Editable VPC
- `frontend/src/hooks/useVPCReport.ts` - Report-based VPC

### Components
- `frontend/src/components/vpc/VPCWithSignals.tsx` - VPC + signals display
- `frontend/src/components/signals/InnovationPhysicsPanel.tsx` - D-F-V dashboard
- `frontend/src/components/approvals/ApprovalDetailModal.tsx` - HITL UI

### Transformers
- `frontend/src/lib/crewai/vpc-transformer.ts` - CrewAI → VPC UI format
- `frontend/src/lib/crewai/amp-client.ts` - CrewAI AMP client

---

## Recommendations Summary

| Priority | Issue | Recommendation |
|----------|-------|----------------|
| Medium | Realtime for validation state | Add Supabase Realtime subscription to `useCrewAIState()` |
| Low | VPC manual edit sync | Add "Sync to CrewAI" action or hybrid merge on next run |
| Low | Evidence history | Consider INSERT vs UPSERT or history table |
| Low | Kickoff ID in approvals | Add fallback derivation from execution_id |

---

*Report generated: 2025-11-28*
*Verification scope: CrewAI → Supabase → API → UI end-to-end data flow*

Commit message:

docs: align product docs and config with Modal backend

docs/reports/crewai-data-flow-verification.md, after:

# End-to-End Data Flow Verification Report

> **Status Note (2026-01-12):** Modal serverless is the canonical backend. AMP references below are historical.

## Executive Summary

**Overall Status: ✅ Well-Architected with Minor Gaps**

The CrewAI → Supabase → API → UI data flow is comprehensively implemented. All major paths are connected, with a few edge cases noted below.

---

## Data Flow Architecture

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                              CrewAI AMP                                      │
│  (InternalValidationFlow / ConsultantOnboardingFlow)                        │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                                    │
                    ┌───────────────┴───────────────┐
                    ▼                               ▼
        POST /api/crewai/webhook          POST /api/approvals/webhook
        (Bearer: CREW_CONTRACT_BEARER)    (Bearer: CREW_CONTRACT_BEARER)
                    │                               │
                    ▼                               ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                           Supabase PostgreSQL                                │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  crewai_validation_states (188 cols)  │  approval_requests                  │
│  - kickoff_id (links to AMP)          │  - execution_id, task_id            │
│  - D-F-V signals                      │  - kickoff_id (links to state)      │
│  - Evidence containers (JSONB)        │  - status, options, decision        │
│  - customer_profiles, value_maps      │                                      │
│  - Crew outputs (all 8 crews)         │  approval_preferences               │
│                                        │  approval_history                   │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  reports  │  evidence  │  entrepreneur_briefs  │  value_proposition_canvas  │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                    │                               │
                    ▼                               ▼
        GET /api/crewai/status            GET /api/approvals
        GET /api/vpc/[projectId]          PATCH /api/approvals/[id]
                    │                               │
                    ▼                               ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                           React Hooks                                        │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  useCrewAIState()     │  useInnovationSignals()  │  useApprovals()          │
│  useVPCReport()       │  useVPC()                │  useFounderStatus()      │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                    │                               │
                    ▼                               ▼
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                           UI Components                                      │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  VPCWithSignals       │  SignalGauge            │  ApprovalCard             │
│  VPCReportViewer      │  InnovationPhysicsPanel │  ApprovalDetailModal      │
│  VPC Canvas (editable)│  SignalBadge/Dot        │  EvidenceSummary          │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

---

## Flow 1: VPC Data (Sage Crew → UI)

### Path
```
Sage Crew (Analysis)
  ↓
POST /api/crewai/webhook (flow_type: founder_validation)
  ↓
crewai_validation_states.customer_profiles (JSONB)
crewai_validation_states.value_maps (JSONB)
  ↓
useCrewAIState(projectId)
  ↓
transformCrewAIToVPC() [vpc-transformer.ts]
  ↓
VPCWithSignals / VPCReportViewer
```

### Verification

| Step | Status | Details |
|------|--------|---------|
| Webhook receives VPC data | ✅ | `customer_profiles` and `value_maps` extracted from payload |
| Persisted to DB | ✅ | JSONB columns with GIN indexes for query performance |
| Hook fetches data | ✅ | `useCrewAIState()` queries by `project_id` |
| Transformer maps fields | ✅ | `transformCrewAIToVPC()` converts to `VPCUISegment[]` |
| Component renders | ✅ | Jobs/Pains/Gains/Relievers/Creators all mapped |

### Data Transformation Check
```
Pydantic CustomerProfile → JSON → TypeScript CustomerProfile
  ✅ segment_name → segment_name
  ✅ jobs (CustomerJob[]) → jobs (with functional/emotional/social/importance)
  ✅ pains (string[]) → pains
  ✅ gains (string[]) → gains
  ✅ pain_intensity (Dict) → pain_intensity (Record)
  ✅ gain_importance (Dict) → gain_importance (Record)
  ✅ resonance_score → resonance_score
```

### Gap: None identified

---

## Flow 2: Evidence Data (Pulse/Forge/Ledger → UI)

### Path
```
Growth Crew (Pulse) → desirability_evidence
Build Crew (Forge)  → feasibility_evidence
Finance Crew (Ledger) → viability_evidence
  ↓
POST /api/crewai/webhook
  ↓
crewai_validation_states.desirability_evidence (JSONB)
crewai_validation_states.feasibility_evidence (JSONB)
crewai_validation_states.viability_evidence (JSONB)
  ↓
useInnovationSignals(projectId)
  ↓
SignalGauge / EvidenceSummary / InnovationPhysicsPanel
```

### Verification

| Step | Status | Details |
|------|--------|---------|
| Evidence containers received | ✅ | All three evidence types in webhook payload |
| Signal derivation | ✅ | `deriveSignalFromEvidence()` maps metrics to signals |
| Evidence persisted | ✅ | Full JSONB objects stored |
| Hook extracts evidence | ✅ | `useInnovationSignals()` returns all three |
| Components display metrics | ✅ | SignalGauge tooltips show key metrics |

### Signal Derivation Logic
```typescript
// Desirability
problem_resonance > 0.6 → 'strong_commitment'
problem_resonance > 0.3 → 'weak_interest'
problem_resonance > 0   → 'no_interest'
default                 → 'no_signal'

// Feasibility
all features POSSIBLE   → 'green'
some CONSTRAINED        → 'orange_constrained'
any IMPOSSIBLE          → 'red_impossible'
default                 → 'unknown'

// Viability
ltv_cac_ratio >= 3      → 'profitable'
ltv_cac_ratio >= 1      → 'marginal'
ltv_cac_ratio > 0       → 'underwater'
tam_usd < threshold     → 'zombie_market'
default                 → 'unknown'
```

### Gap: None identified

---

## Flow 3: Signals (StartupValidationState → Phase Visualization)

### Path
```
StartupValidationState (from any crew update)
  ↓
crewai_validation_states.phase
crewai_validation_states.desirability_signal
crewai_validation_states.feasibility_signal
crewai_validation_states.viability_signal
crewai_validation_states.pivot_recommendation
  ↓
useCrewAIState(projectId)
  ↓
InnovationPhysicsPanel / PhaseBadge / PivotBadge
```

### Verification

| Step | Status | Details |
|------|--------|---------|
| Phase tracking | ✅ | `phase` column: ideation→desirability→feasibility→viability→validated/killed |
| Signal columns | ✅ | Three separate columns with enum types |
| Pivot recommendation | ✅ | `pivot_recommendation` column with PivotType enum |
| UI mapping | ✅ | `signalConfig` maps signals to colors/icons |

### Phase Progression Display
```
ideation → desirability → feasibility → viability → validated
                                                  ↘ killed
```

### Gap: None identified

---

## Flow 4: HITL Approvals (CrewAI Webhook → Approval UI → Resume)

### Path
```
CrewAI (human_input_required: true)
  ↓
POST /api/approvals/webhook
  ↓
approval_requests table (status: 'pending')
  ↓
useApprovals() [with Supabase Realtime]
  ↓
ApprovalCard / ApprovalDetailModal
  ↓
User decision (approve/reject)
  ↓
PATCH /api/approvals/[id]
  ↓
POST ${CREWAI_API_URL}/resume (execution_id, task_id, decision, feedback)
  ↓
CrewAI resumes execution
```

### Verification

| Step | Status | Details |
|------|--------|---------|
| Webhook creates request | ✅ | Full payload stored: execution_id, task_id, options |
| Auto-approve check | ✅ | Checks `approval_preferences` before creating |
| Realtime subscription | ✅ | `supabase.channel('approval-changes')` |
| UI displays options | ✅ | Radio buttons from `options[]` with risk levels |
| Resume call | ✅ | `resumeCrewAIExecution()` POSTs to `/resume` |
| History tracking | ✅ | All actions logged to `approval_history` |

### Approval Types Supported
```
segment_pivot | value_pivot | feature_downgrade | strategic_pivot
spend_increase | campaign_launch | customer_contact | gate_progression | data_sharing
```

### Gap: None identified

---

## Additional Flows Verified

### Flow 5: Analysis Trigger
```
User clicks "Analyze" → POST /api/analyze → CrewAI /kickoff → poll /api/crewai/status
                                                            → webhook on completion
```
**Status: ✅ Connected**

### Flow 6: VPC Initialization (CrewAI → Editable Canvas)
```
crewai_validation_states → POST /api/vpc/[projectId]/initialize → value_proposition_canvas
                                                                → useVPC() for CRUD
```
**Status: ✅ Connected**

### Flow 7: Founder Status Polling
```
/api/agents/status → useFounderStatus() → FounderAvatar / active agent display
```
**Status: ✅ Connected**

---

## Gaps & Issues Found

### ⚠️ Gap 1: Kickoff ID Propagation to Approvals

**Issue:** When an approval is created via webhook, the `kickoff_id` may be null if the CrewAI payload doesn't include it consistently.

**Impact:** Linking approval decisions back to the original validation state could fail.

**Files Affected:**
- `frontend/src/app/api/approvals/webhook/route.ts`

**Recommendation:** Add fallback logic to derive `kickoff_id` from `execution_id` if not provided.

---

### ⚠️ Gap 2: VPC Sync After Manual Edits

**Issue:** When users manually edit VPC data in `value_proposition_canvas`, there's no automatic sync back to `crewai_validation_states`.

**Impact:** The next CrewAI run won't see manual edits unless explicitly merged.

**Files Affected:**
- `frontend/src/app/api/vpc/[projectId]/route.ts`
- `frontend/src/hooks/useVPC.ts`

**Recommendation:**
1. Add `source: 'crewai' | 'manual' | 'hybrid'` tracking (already exists)
2. Consider adding a "Sync to CrewAI" action that updates `crewai_validation_states`

---

### ⚠️ Gap 3: Evidence History Not Preserved

**Issue:** Each webhook UPSERTS on `project_id`, replacing previous evidence.

**Impact:** Historical evidence from earlier iterations is lost.

**Files Affected:**
- `frontend/src/app/api/crewai/webhook/route.ts`

**Recommendation:**
1. Change UPSERT to INSERT with `iteration` increment
2. Or maintain separate `validation_state_history` table

---

### ⚠️ Gap 4: Realtime Updates for Validation State

**Issue:** `useCrewAIState()` doesn't subscribe to Realtime - only polls on mount.

**Impact:** UI won't update automatically when CrewAI webhook updates state.

**Files Affected:**
- `frontend/src/hooks/useCrewAIState.ts`

**Recommendation:** Add Supabase Realtime subscription like `useApprovals()` does:
```typescript
supabase.channel('validation-state-changes')
  .on('postgres_changes', {
    event: '*',
    schema: 'public',
    table: 'crewai_validation_states',
    filter: `project_id=eq.${projectId}`
  }, () => refetch())
```

---

## Verification Summary

| Data Flow | Persistence | API Routes | Hooks | Components | Status |
|-----------|-------------|------------|-------|------------|--------|
| VPC Data | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ Complete |
| Evidence | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ Complete |
| Signals | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ Complete |
| HITL | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ Complete |
| Analysis Trigger | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ Complete |
| VPC Editable | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ✅ | ⚠️ Sync gap |
| Realtime Updates | ⚠️ | N/A | ⚠️ | N/A | ⚠️ Partial |

**Overall: 6/7 flows fully connected, 1 with minor sync gap**

---

## Critical Files Reference

### Persistence Layer
- `frontend/src/db/schema/crewai-validation-states.ts` - Main schema (188 columns)
- `supabase/migrations/20251126000002_approval_requests.sql` - HITL tables

### API Routes
- `frontend/src/app/api/crewai/webhook/route.ts` - Main webhook handler
- `frontend/src/app/api/approvals/webhook/route.ts` - HITL webhook
- `frontend/src/app/api/approvals/[id]/route.ts` - Approval decisions + resume
- `frontend/src/app/api/vpc/[projectId]/route.ts` - VPC CRUD
- `frontend/src/app/api/vpc/[projectId]/initialize/route.ts` - VPC initialization

### Hooks
- `frontend/src/hooks/useCrewAIState.ts` - Main state + signals
- `frontend/src/hooks/useApprovals.ts` - HITL with Realtime
- `frontend/src/hooks/useVPC.ts` - Editable VPC
- `frontend/src/hooks/useVPCReport.ts` - Report-based VPC

### Components
- `frontend/src/components/vpc/VPCWithSignals.tsx` - VPC + signals display
- `frontend/src/components/signals/InnovationPhysicsPanel.tsx` - D-F-V dashboard
- `frontend/src/components/approvals/ApprovalDetailModal.tsx` - HITL UI

### Transformers
- `frontend/src/lib/crewai/vpc-transformer.ts` - CrewAI → VPC UI format
- `frontend/src/lib/crewai/amp-client.ts` - CrewAI AMP client

---

## Recommendations Summary

| Priority | Issue | Recommendation |
|----------|-------|----------------|
| Medium | Realtime for validation state | Add Supabase Realtime subscription to `useCrewAIState()` |
| Low | VPC manual edit sync | Add "Sync to CrewAI" action or hybrid merge on next run |
| Low | Evidence history | Consider INSERT vs UPSERT or history table |
| Low | Kickoff ID in approvals | Add fallback derivation from execution_id |

---

*Report generated: 2025-11-28*
*Verification scope: CrewAI → Supabase → API → UI end-to-end data flow*
